
---PAGE 1---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with
Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling
Jingqi Feng
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
jqfeng23@m.fudan.edu.cn
Yukai Huang
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
ykhuang20@fudan.edu.cn
Rui Zhang
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
zhangrui21@m.fudan.edu.cn
Sicheng Liang
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
scliang23@m.fudan.edu.cn
Ming Yan
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
myan@fudan.edu.cn
Jie Wu∗
Fudan University
Shanghai, Shanghai, China
jwu@fudan.edu.cn
Abstract
Existing large language model (LLM) serving systems typically
batch the compute-bound prefill and I/O-bound decoding phases
together. This co-location approach not only leads to significant
interference between the two phases but also limits resource allo-
cation and placements. To address these limitations, recent work
proposes disaggregating the prefill and decoding phases to enhance
performance. However, these works often rely on coarse-grained
static scheduling strategies, resulting in imbalanced and insuffi-
cient resource utilization. For instance, compute resources for the
prefill phase may be overloaded while those for the decoding phase
remain idle, resulting in performance bottlenecks.
In this paper, we propose WindServe, an efficient phase dis-
aggregated LLM serving system that leverages stream-based, fine-
grained dynamic scheduling to enhance resource utilization and
performance. WindServe features a global scheduler that monitors
compute and memory resource usage to dynamically orchestrate
cross-phase jobs, effectively reducing queuing delay and KV cache
swapping overhead. We also introduce a stall-free rescheduling
strategy to saturate the memory resources while minimizing the
scheduling overhead from KV cache transfers. Furthermore, we
design a stream-based approach to mitigate interference between
prefill and decoding jobs. Our evaluation demonstrates that Wind-
Serve achieves remarkable stability and SLO attainment under high-
load scenarios, outperforming state-of-the-art phase-disaggregated
LLM serving systems by delivering a 4.28× improvement in TTFT
median latency and a 1.5× reduction in TPOT P99 latency.
CCS Concepts
•Computing methodologies → Distributed artificial intelli-
gence; Cooperation and coordination.
∗Corresponding author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ISCA ’25, Tokyo, Japan
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-1261-6/25/06
https://doi.org/10.1145/3695053.3730999
Keywords
Distributed LLM Inference, GPU Sharing, Scheduling Optimization
ACM Reference Format:
Jingqi Feng, Yukai Huang, Rui Zhang, Sicheng Liang, Ming Yan, and Jie Wu.
2025. WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-
based Dynamic Scheduling. In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual International
Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA ’25), June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo,
Japan. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3695053.
3730999
1 Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs), such as GPT [ 6], GLM [11] and
LLaMA [38], have gained considerable attention due to their impres-
sive natural language processing capabilities. However, deploying
LLMs demands substantial hardware acceleration, resulting in high
operational costs. Specifically, the cost of processing LLM requests
can be up to 10× greater than traditional keyword queries. There-
fore, improving LLM inference efficiency is essential to reducing
these costs in large-scale deployments. To achieve improved effi-
ciency, many advances [1, 2, 13, 18, 29, 42, 45] have been proposed in
recent years. Despite these advancements, efficient LLM inference
remains a significant challenge.
In transformer-based [40] LLMs, an inference request consists
of two phases: the prefill phase and the decoding phase. During
the prefill phase, all prompt tokens are processed to generate the
first output token, which is typically compute-intensive. Following
this, the generally I/O-bound decoding phase begins and decodes
iteratively until a special end-of-sequence (EOS) token is generated.
Consequently, the performance of LLM inference is usually mea-
sured by two main metrics: time to first token (TTFT) , associated
with the prefill phase, and time per output token (TPOT) , related
to the decoding phase. TTFT measures the time from request is-
suance to the generation of the first output token, encompassing
both queuing delays and prompt processing times. TPOT reflects
the average time required to produce each subsequent token in the
response sequence, excluding the first token. It is influenced by
three factors: the decoding queuing delay, the elapsed time of the
decoding phase, and the length of the output tokens.
Previous LLM serving systems either combine prefill and de-
coding phases of different requests into a hybrid batch [18, 42] or
interleave multiple iterations of decoding jobs with prefill jobs [7].
1
1283

---PAGE 2---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
2 3 4
Per-GPU Rate (req/s)
0
1
2Decode Queuing Delay (s)
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
# Swapped Blocks
(a) Decode queuing and swapping.
2 3 4
Per-GPU Rate (req/s)
25
50
75SLO Attainment (%)
DistServe-TTFT
DistServe
vLLM-TTFT
vLLM (b) SLO attainment.
Figure 1: TPOT and TTFT degrade under high workloads
when serving OPT-13B on the NVIDIA 80GB A800. Dist-
Serve [45] is phase-disaggregated (2-way tensor parallelism
for both prefilling and decoding), while vLLM [ 18] is co-
located.
However, prefill and decoding phases have distinct characteris-
tics, making it challenging for these conventional approaches to
optimize both TTFT and TPOT simultaneously. Concretely, a prefill-
only jobs can be significantly longer, often dozens of times, than
a decode-only job. As a result, batching prefill and decode jobs to-
gether frequently causes severe prefill-decode interference, leading
to substantial Service Level Objective (SLO) violations. To address
this issue, recent researches [13, 29, 32, 45] propose a novel Phase-
Disaggregated (PD) architecture , which splits the prefill and
decoding phase into separate serving instances, transferring the
KV cache generated by the prefill instance to the decoding instance.
By decoupling resource allocation between these phases, this ar-
chitecture also allows service providers to configure each instance
independently according to workload demands.
However, our observations in Figure 1 indicate that the PD-
architecture LLM serving system exhibits suboptimal performance
under high request loads, even achieving a lower SLO attainment
rate compared to co-located serving system. As the request rate
increases, the limitations of LLM serving systems become more pro-
nounced, particularly their significant underutilization of system
resources. Firstly, existing PD architectures do not retain KV cache
tensors in the prefill instance, thus, all active KV cache is stored in
the decode instance, which leads to inefficient use of GPU global
memory. As evidenced in Figure 1a, memory resources are not fully
utilized, resulting in high decode queuing delays and frequent KV
cache swapping between GPU global memory and CPU memory—a
primary contributor to degraded TPOT latency. On the other hand,
in practice, the decoding instances often requires redundant GPU
resources to meet stringent TPOT SLOs. However, decoding jobs
typically do not fully saturate the available computational capacity,
resulting in resource underutilization and poor TTFT performance
at high request rates, as shown in Figure 1b. These findings high-
light the necessity of fine-grained dynamic scheduling mechanisms
in PD-architecture systems to achieve balanced resource utilization.
Nevertheless, implementing such mechanisms introduces three
critical challenges:
Challenge 1: Overload Detection Mechanism Design & Sched-
uling Policy Optimization. Dynamic scheduling necessitates
multi-dimensional overload detection mechanisms capable of adapt-
ing to heterogeneous workload patterns (e.g., variable prompt/out-
put lengths) and distinct phase characteristics (prefill vs. decoding).
Furthermore, designing efficient scheduling policies requires bal-
ancing conflicting objectives: minimizing TTFT queuing delays
while preventing cascading interference that could impair TPOT
performance. Suboptimal scheduling could intensify workload im-
balance and induce cascading performance degradation.
Challenge 2: How to alleviate the overhead associated with
the scheduling process? Dynamic scheduling involves addi-
tional overheads such as data transfers. For example, maximizing
GPU memory utilization requires transferring KV cache from decod-
ing instance to prefill instance. This transfer can block the inference
process, potentially leading to increased latency and reduced sys-
tem performance. Careful data flow management is essential to
balance the benefits of dynamic scheduling against the risks of
disrupting ongoing jobs.
Challenge 3: How to minimize cross-phase interference when
jobs co-locate? To fully utilize resources and alleviate bottlenecks
under high workloads, prefill and decoding jobs are necessary to
co-locate within the same instance, leading to inevitable perfill-
decode interference. Minimizing this interference and maintaining
efficient executions is essential to improve system performance.
To address these challenges, we present WindServe, a latency-
oriented LLM serving system based on the PD architecture. Wind-
Serve mitigates the inherent KV cache transfer overhead by over-
lapping transfers with prefill computations. It integrates a Global
Scheduler that establishes specific overload detection indicators for
different instances to generate precise and effective dynamic sched-
uling strategies, including Dynamic Prefill Dispatch and Dynamic
Rescheduling. WindServe also implements a stall-free rescheduling
method to reduce the rescheduling overhead. Finally, it employs
Stream-based Disaggregation to mitigate the strong prefill-decode
interference that occurs during dynamic scheduling under high
workloads. Specifically, Stream-based Disaggregation allows decod-
ing jobs and a few prefill jobs to run concurrently in separate CUDA
streams within the decoding instance, thus minimizing cross-phase
interference.
We implement a prototype of WindServe, which supports vari-
ous LLM series, ensuring versatility across a wide range of applica-
tions. We evaluate WindServe with the OPT [43] and LLaMA2 [39]
models on realistic datasets [3, 36]. Compared to state-of-the-art
solutions, DistServe [45], our experimental results show that Wind-
Serve achieves up to 1.65-4.28× reduction in TTFT median latency
and it can also reduce the TPOT P99 latency by 1.5×. Moreover, due
to its bottleneck-aware capabilities, WindServe performs competi-
tively across diverse workloads. In general, this paper makes the
following contributions.
• Reveal resource underutilization and imbalance in the Phase-
Disaggregated architecture and propose fine-grained dy-
namic scheduling to address these issues.
• Design and implement WindServe with dynamic schedul-
ing strategy. Furthermore, minimize the overhead associ-
ated with dynamic scheduling viaStall-free Rescheduling and
2
1284

---PAGE 3---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
Stream-based Disaggregation.
• Conduct a comprehensive evaluation of WindServe, demon-
strating its significant improvement in latency.
2 Background and Motivation
2.1 LLM Inference
Decoder-only LLMs (such as LLaMA [38], GPT [6] and OPT [43])
are composed of multiple Transformer [40] layers and demonstrate
exceptional performance. When processing requests, these LLMs
must forward through all these layers during both prefill phases and
the decoding phases. In addition, due to the self-attention mecha-
nisms, the last generated token, along with the key (K) and value (V)
tensors of all previously generated tokens and the prompt tokens,
are required as inputs during the decoding phase. Advanced LLM
serving systems [7, 18, 42, 45] cache the key and value tensors, as
known as KV cache [30], to avoid recomputation by trading storage
for efficiency. Furthermore, various optimizations are commonly
employed in LLM serving systems:
Batching. Batch processing is a widely adopted method to im-
prove the efficiency in LLM inference. Each forward pass involves
substantial computations that require transferring weights and
intermediate variables from the GPU’s high-bandwidth memory
(HBM) to on-chip static random-access memory (SRAM), result-
ing in significant I/O overhead. LLM serving systems typically
utilize batch processing to distribute this overhead across multi-
ple requests. However, due to the unpredictable input and output
lengths of the requests, naive batch processing will lead to serious
barrel effects. Advanced LLM inference engines [18, 26, 42, 45] im-
plement continuous batching, allowing requests to exit the batch
processing as soon as they complete, while immediately joining
ongoing batch processing when new requests arrive. In original
vLLM [18] implementation, prefill and decoding jobs are batched
together, increasing throughput but introducing prefill-decoding
interference. However, in PD-architecture serving systems such as
DistServe [45], prefill and decoding jobs are distributed to different
serving instances to avoid interference, with KV cache transferring
between instances.
Memory Optimization. In LLM serving systems, the KV cache
could occupy a substantial amount of GPU global memory. Further-
more, as the output length of requests is hard to predict, previous
LLM inference engines [ 7, 31, 42] reserve a large block of GPU
memory equal to the maximum context length for each request.
This results in significant memory fragmentation and reduced effi-
ciency in batch processing. To address this, vLLM [18] introduces a
novel approach known as PagedAttention, which mitigates inter-
nal fragmentation and improves the throughput of LLM inference.
PagedAttention dynamically allocates KV cache tensors in blocks as
the cache grows, eliminating the requirement to pre-allocate a large
space for the KV cache. This method allows for a more flexible and
efficient use of GPU memory. By integrating PagedAttention into
WindServe, we aim to optimize GPU memory utilization, ensuring
the LLM serving engine works efficiently.
2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0
Per-GPU Req Rates
20
40
60Utilization (%)
0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7
Per-GPU Req Rates
15
30
45
60
 T ensor Core (P) T ensor Core (D) Mem BW (P) Mem BW (D)
Figure 2: Mean resource utilization of prefill instances and de-
coding instances. 𝑇 𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑜𝑟 𝐶𝑜𝑟𝑒 (𝑃) denotes tensor core utiliza-
tion in prefill instance, while𝑀𝑒𝑚 𝐵𝑊 (𝐷) represents memory
bandwidth utilization during decoding. The left panel corre-
sponds to OPT-13B, and the right panel depicts OPT-66B.
2.2 Phase-Disaggregated Architecture
High-throughput LLM serving systems [18, 42] typically integrate
prefill and decoding jobs into hybrid batches, leading to interference
between prefill and decoding jobs. Emerging PD-architecture LLM
Serving systems [13, 29, 32, 45] address this interference through
phase disaggregation. Moreover, this architecture offers an another
advantage of enabling the decoupling of placement strategies and
scales of prefill instances and decoding instances. However, these
systems often struggle to maintain a high level of service quality
when confronted with increased workload demands. The main
issues are as follows:
KV cache migration overhead . Taking OPT-13B [43] as an
example, for a request with 2048 tokens (the maximum supported
context length), the KV cache to be transferred is approximately
1.5 GB when both the prefill and decoding instances are deployed
on a single GPU respectively. This transmission overhead could
be near-zero for devices with GPU high-speed interconnects (i.e.,
NVLink), but significant for PCIe devices. For instance, when GPUs
are interconnected via PCIe Gen4 ×16 at 32 GB/s within the same
NUMA node, transferring the KV cache for a single request may
take ~65 ms when peer-to-peer (P2P) is enabled, which could be sev-
eral times the duration of a single decoding iteration. Furthermore,
the size of the KV cache to be transferred increases with average
input length and arrival rate, and this transmission overhead is
further magnified during inter-node transfers.
Lack of inter-instance coordination . Limited collaboration
between serving instances prevents the PD-architecture LLM serv-
ing systems from effectively identifying performance bottlenecks.
While DistServe [45] implements instance orchestration, including
managing placement and instance sizing, it may still suffer from
suboptimal resource utilization due to inflexible scheduling under
diverse workloads. Each instance in the serving system requires
a dynamic scheduling strategy that adapts to the actual workload.
Without such adaptability, a bottleneck in any single instance can
significantly degrade overall quality of service.
Insufficient and uneven resource utilization. Insufficient re-
source utilization manifests in two key aspects, computing and
3
1285

---PAGE 4---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
0 80 160 240 320 400
#Served Request
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8Prefill Queuing Delay (s) AVG : 0.066s
AVG : 0.179s
 
[TP-2, TP-1] [TP-2, TP-2]
(a) Prefill queuing delay
0 80 160 240 320 400
#Served Request
0
5
10
15
20
25Decode Queuing Delay (s)
 
[TP-2, TP-1] [TP-2, TP-2] (b) Decoding queuing delay
Figure 3: Queuing delays when serving an LLM with 13B pa-
rameters under Sharegpt [ 36] datasets at per-gpu rate = 4 re-
q/s with different configures. [TP-2, TP-1] represents that the
placement for the prefill instance’s strategy is 2-way tensor
parallelism without pipeline parallelism, and the decoding
instance’s is 1-way tensor parallelism without pipeline paral-
lelism. For notational convenience, the placement strategies
in the following section are represented according to this
rule.
memory resources. First, computing resources are often under-
utilized. As shown in Figure 2 and highlighted in recent stud-
ies [14, 15, 20, 41], I/O-bound AI/ML workloads often fail to fully
utilize GPU computing resources, with decoding jobs being a typi-
cal I/O-bound workload. In scenarios with stringent TPOT SLOs,
such as chatbot, it may be necessary to allocate additional GPUs
to decoding instance for efficiency. However, this exacerbates the
underutilization of computational resources. Even worse, in some
cases, significant idle computing resources may exist in decoding
instances while prefill instances suffer from insufficient computa-
tional capacity, resulting in increased queuing delay. In addition
to computing resources, memory resources also demonstrate sig-
nificant underutilization. The prefill instance is typically dedicated
to prefill jobs, and once the KV cache transfer is completed, the
KV cache is no longer retained. Consequently, the KV cache for
all decoding jobs is stored in the decoding instance, meaning that
the memory resources of the serving cluster are not fully utilized.
This could lead to the overloading of the decoding instances, result-
ing in recomputations and excessive swapping of KV cache blocks
between GPU and CPU memory.
We attribute the underutilizations and observed suboptimal per-
formance to the coarse-grained GPU-based allocation method and
the inflexible cross-instance scheduling strategy. Our evaluations
follow a linear scaling rule , focusing on how service quality
changes with per-GPU Request Rate , rather than Total Request Rate.
Following the linear scaling rule, allocating more GPUs to prefill
instances accelerates prefill computations, resulting in increased
KV cache storage in decoding instances. This may lead to increased
recomputation or even swapping of the KV cache. In contrast, if
decoding instances are allocated relatively redundant resources,
inadequate resource utilization can significantly increase the queu-
ing delay of prefill jobs. As depicted in Figure 3, when the prefill
instance is assigned to 2 GPUs and the decoding instance to 1
GPU ([TP-2, TP-1]), the prefill is redundant and the decoding in-
stance limits the TPOT latency. When both instances are set to
KV caches
Coordinator
Global Scheduler
Waiting Queue
Running Pipeline
KV 
Manager
Decode Stream
Prefill Stream
Null Stream
Dynamic Prefill Dispatch 
New Requests
Prefill Instance Decoding Instance
Scheduler
KV 
Manager
Stall-free Re-
Scheduling 
§3.3
Waiting Queue
Running Pipeline
Scheduler
GPU 
Engine GPU 
Engine
R3 R2 R1
§3.4
§3.2
Profiler
Figure 4: Overview of WindServe
2 GPUs ([TP-2, TP-2]), the decoding instance is redundant, and
the prefill queuing delays increase. Although DistServe [45] sug-
gests replanning the allocation strategy when the request pattern
shifts significantly, the associated replanning overhead introduces
non-negligible stagnation, rendering this approach suboptimal.
3 WindServe Design
In this paper, we present WindServe, which addresses the challenges
(outlined in §2.2) in existing PD architecture through cost-efficient
dynamic scheduling.
3.1 Overview
As shown in Figure 4, to efficiently coordinate pre-fill and decoding
jobs for better utilization of resources, we introduce a Global Sched-
uler (§3.2). The Global Scheduler is composed of two components, a
Profiler and a Coordinator. Based on the analysis and modeling of
computational and I/O overheads in the LLM inference, we design
the Profiler (§3.2.1). The Profiler characterizes the computational
capability of each instance and predicts the completion time of
a batch, enabling optimal scheduling. The Coordinator (§3.2.2) is
responsible for monitoring the resource utilization and workload
of each instance and collaborating with the Profiler to perform two
dynamic scheduling strategies: 1○ Dynamic Prefill Dispatch: When
a new request arrives, if the prefill instance is overloaded, then
the Coordinator decides whether to dispatch its prefill tasks to the
decode instance; 2○ Dynamic Rescheduling: if the decode instance
is overloaded, WindServe reschedules some decoding requests to
the prefill instance. Each instance of WindServe features a local
scheduler responsible for scheduling requests from the waiting
queue into the running pipeline following a First-Come-First-Serve
(FCFS) order. Once requests complete the prefill phase in prefill
instance and finish their KV transfer, they are pushed into the wait-
ing queue of the decoding instance. Similar to previous advanced
LLM serving systems [1, 18, 45], WindServe divides the KV cache
space into blocks, and sets up a KV manager in each instance for
KV block management. In addition, to avoid the KV cache transfer
overhead from rescheduling, a Stall-free Migration method (§3.3) is
introduced in WindServe that does not block decoding iterations
during KV cache transfers. Finally, we propose Stream-Based Dis-
aggregation (§3.4) technology to separate prefill and decoding jobs
4
1286

---PAGE 5---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
Table 1: Per-layer overhead analysis of Attention and FFN.
Take OPT family (FP16) for example. 𝐵, 𝐻, 𝑁 and Í 𝐿 rep-
resent batch size, hidden size, the number of prefill input
tokens and sum of context lengths respectively.
Module FLOPs IO bytes
Prefill Decode Prefill Decode
Attn 8𝑁 𝐻2 + 4𝑁 2𝐻 8𝐵𝐻 2 +4 Í 𝐿𝐻 8𝐻 2 8𝐻 2 +4 Í 𝐿𝐻
FFN 16𝑁 𝐻2 16𝐵𝐻 2 16𝐻 2 16𝐻 2
into different streams for asynchronous computations, reducing
caused prefill-decode interference.
3.2 Global Scheduler
3.2.1 Profiler. We implement a Profiler in Global Scheduler to
characterize the computing capabilities of the LLM serving system
and to predict the time required for each iteration of the compu-
tation, allowing optimal dispatch of prefill jobs. Researches [1, 44]
indicate that the Self-Attention mechanism and the FFN (Feed-
Forward Network) are two of the most computationally intensive
and time consuming modules in transformer-based LLMs. We list
the FLOPs (floating-point operations) and IO overhead associated
with these two modules in the Table 1. For example, in FFN, the
two matrices multiplied at the first layer have the shapes𝐵 × 𝐻 and
𝐻 × 4𝐻, and the Matrix-Vector multiplication needs one multiply-
add (2 FLOPs) per matrix element, so the FLOPs for the first layer
are 𝐵 × 𝐻 × 4𝐻 × 2.
For the prefill phase, its Attention and FFN module are both
typically compute-bound. Therefore, prefill time-consumption is
mainly limited by FLOPs (8𝑁 𝐻2 + 4𝑁 2𝐻 + 16𝑁 𝐻2). Consequently,
the estimated time cost for the prefill phase could be expressed as
equation 1. While for the decoding phase, its Attention and FFN
modules are both usually I/O-bound and the total IO overhead is
24𝐻 2 + 4 Í 𝐿𝐻 , proving that the time consumption of the decod-
ing computation is mainly related to the total context length, as
expressed in equation 2.
ˆ𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒 𝑓 𝑖𝑙𝑙 = 𝑎𝑝 𝑁 + 𝑏𝑝 𝑁 2 + 𝑐𝑝 (1)
ˆ𝑇𝑑𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑑𝑒 = 𝑎𝑑
∑︁
𝐿 + 𝑐𝑑 (2)
Based on the above analysis, the Profiler takes the number of
prefill tokens and the total length of the decoding context as input
to estimate the time taken for one batch of computations with a
quadratic function, whose parameters are obtained by profiling and
quadratic regression before runtime. It is worth noting that, due
to certain optimizations in the attention mechanism, the attention
elapsed time during the prefill phase is more linearly related to 𝑁 .
3.2.2 Coordinator. The Coordinator collaborates with theProfiler
for cross-instance dynamic scheduling. Dynamic Prefill Dispatch is
triggered when the prefill instance is overloaded, while Dynamic
Rescheduling is activated when decoding instance overwhelms.
Dynamic Prefill Dispatch. WindServe proposes Dynamic Prefill
Dispatch to solve the high TTFT latency caused by overload of
prefill instances. Algorithm 1 shows in detail how the Coordinator
performs Dynamic Prefill Dispatch based on the overall workload.
Algorithm 1 Algorithm of Dynamic Prefill Dispatch
Input: Profiler 𝑃, Coordinator 𝐶, currently prefilling Batch 𝐵𝑝,
prefill instance waiting queue 𝑄𝑝, new request 𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 , decoding
instance KV block manager 𝐵𝑀𝑑 and decoding instance run-
ning pipeline 𝑝𝑖𝑝𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑒 𝑑
1: 𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 ←𝑃.PredictTime(𝐵𝑝, 𝑄𝑝, 𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 )
2: if 𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 is ∅then
3: 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑠 ← 𝐶.CalculateAvailableSlots(𝑝𝑖𝑝𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑒 𝑑, 𝐵𝑀𝑑)
4: end if
5: if 𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 > 𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑑 then
6: if 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑠 ≥ 𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 .𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑡ℎ then
7: 𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠. insert(𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 )
8: 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑠 ← 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑠 − 𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 .𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑔𝑡ℎ
9: else
10: 𝑄𝑝.enqueue(𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 )
11: end if
12: else
13: 𝑄𝑝.enqueue(𝑅𝑛𝑒𝑤 )
14: end if
15: if decoding instance is ready then
16: Add 𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 to 𝑝𝑖𝑝𝑒𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑒 𝑑
17: 𝑎𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑠𝑡𝑅𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑒𝑠𝑡𝑠 ← ∅
18: end if
When a new request arrives, the Global Scheduler decides on
which instance to execute the prefill jobs of the request based on the
prefill instance’s waiting queue and the decoding instance’s running
pipeline. Initially, the Profiler estimates the prefill completion time
(𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 ) of the the new request if it is performed in the prefill
instance. Indeed, we input the cumulative prefill tokens count for
all requests in the waiting queue along with the new request to the
Profiler. This input yields an estimated time, denoted as 𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇 −
𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 .
We then add the anticipatedremaining time ffor thethe currently
prefilling batch to this estimate to derive tfinalal 𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 . The
𝑇𝑇 𝐹𝑇𝑝𝑟𝑒𝑑 is based on the number of tokens rather than the number
of requests, thus its a more precise flag for determining if the prefill
instance is overloaded. Further, if this flag exceeds a threshold
(𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑑 ), the decoding instance would be checked for available slots,
which represents the number of prefill tokens that the decoding
instance could help with. If sufficient slots are available, the prefill
computation of a new request would be dispatched to the decoding
instance.
The 𝑡ℎ𝑟𝑑 setting presents a trade-off: a smaller threshold gener-
ally triggers dynamic prefill dispatch more frequently, resulting in
lower TTFT but higher TPOT. However, if set too low, it can over-
whelm the decoding instance with excessive prefill jobs, increasing
TTFT due to queuing delay, as illustrated in Figure 5. Therefore, to
avoid this problem and minimize the impact on TPOT, we set the
threshold slightly below the TTFT SLO.
In line 3 of the algorithm 1, the Coordinator calculates the slots
to assist with prefill jobs based on the running pipeline and KV
block manager of the decoding instance. We establish a 𝑏𝑢𝑑𝑔𝑒𝑡 for
assisting prefill jobs in the decoding instance, limiting the maximum
number of prefill tokens that do not exceed the TPOT SLO in a
single forward pass. WindServe determines the 𝑏𝑢𝑑𝑔𝑒𝑡 through
5
1287

---PAGE 6---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
0.1 0.2 0.4 0.5
Overload Threshold (s)
40
60
80
100SLO Attainment Rate (%)
 
1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0
Overload Threshold (s)
40
50
60
70
80
 TTFT TPOT SLO
Figure 5: The impact of different threshold settings on the
SLO attainment rate is shown on the left for the OPT-13B
model using the Sharegpt [ 36] dataset at 4 per-GPU re-
q/s, alongside results from the LLaMA2-13B with the Long-
bench [3] dataset at 1.5 per-GPU req/s.
simulation and profiling before runtime and identifies available
slots during runtime based on the running pipeline of the decoding
instance as calculated by the Profiler. Notably, if the KV blocks in
the decoding instance are inadequate, the available slot is set to 0.
If some prefill jobs are executed in the decoding instance, the
decoding instance would temporarily perform Stream-based Disag-
gregation to alleviate prefill-decode interference. Concretely, when
pre-fill and decoding jobs coexist in the decoding instance, the local
scheduler of the decoding instance puts them into one hybrid batch
as does vLLM [18], but separates the computations into different
CUDA streams during execution on GPU engine. We introduce
Stream-based Disaggregation technology in detail in §3.4.
Dynamic Rescheduling. As mentioned in §2.2, the PD-architecture
serving system suffers from underutilization of GPU memory. How-
ever, being able to utilize the GPU memory of the prefill instance
while maintaining efficient decoding is challenging. One potential
solution involves storing the KV cache from specific layers within
the prefill instance and leveraging high-bandwidth GPU intercon-
nection technologies such as NVLink to facilitate the swapping
of KV caches between the prefill and decoding instances. Clearly,
this approach is feasible due to the sequential ordering between
layers. However, it should be noted that although this guarantees
relatively high performance in most advanced devices such as the
GB200 NVL72 [27], even the high bandwidth NVLink of the GB200
NVL72 is not sufficient to achieve fast swapping without compro-
mising performance. Alternatively, we could consider migrating
some KV cache to the prefill instance when the decoding instance
runs low on KV cache blocks, allowing decoding jobs to proceed
within the prefill instance. However, this method introduces mi-
gration overhead and can lead to prefill-decode interference in the
prefill instance.
In comparison to the first method, the second method is more
practical. The first method necessitates careful scheduling of KV
cache transfers, and frequent swapping of KV cache across instances
can disrupt the inherent KV cache transfer between prefill and
decoding instances, resulting in unpredictable consequences, not
to mention that existing GPU interconnect technologies cannot
support such rapid transfers. Consequently, WindServe adopts the
second approach to solve the memory underutilization problem
by rescheduling certain requests to prefill instances when the KV
…
Start to reschedule Pop from running pipeline
Start decoding in Prefill instance 
Decode
Prefill        
Prefill Instance
Decoding Instance
KV cache 
transfer
Chunked-
prefill
Figure 6: Stall-free Dynamic Rescheduling in WindServe
blocks of decoding instances are nearly exhausted. This strategy
focuses on rescheduling long-context requests to free up more KV
cache in the decoding instances.
3.3 Stall-free Rescheduling
To minimize the rescheduling overhead associated with KV cache
transfers, we propose a stall-free request migration method, as
illustrated in Figure 6. When the KV cache blocks in the decoding
instance are nearing exhaustion, Dynamic Rescheduling is activated,
prompting WindServe to transfer the KV cache of certain long-
context requests to the prefill instance. During this transfer, these
migrating requests continue their decoding iterations and generate
new KV cache in the decoding instance without blocking. Once
the remaining KV cache to be transferred falls below a certain
threshold, the decoding instance pauses decoding for that request,
and the Prefill instance resumes their decoding phases after the KV
cache transfer is fully completed.
Additionally, WindServe bounds prefill-decode interference via
chunked-prefill [1] in prefill instance. Specifically, if there are de-
coding jobs in the prefill instance, the prefill jobs in it would be
converted to chunked-prefill fashion to avoid strong prefill-decode
interference. The idea of Stall-free Rescheduling is similar to the
multi-stage migration proposed by Llumnix [33], both aiming to
prevent KV cache migration from blocking request decoding. How-
ever, Llumnix tends to migrate short-context requests to reduce
migration overhead and fragmentation, while WindServe tends
to migrate longer sequences in order to free up more space and
decrease prefill-decode interference. Moreover, to minimize migra-
tion overheads, the prefill instance dynamically backs up the KV
cache of some long-context requests when there is sufficient KV
blocks and relatively limited KV blocks in decoding instance. These
backups can reduce migration costs when the backed-up requests
are later rescheduled to prefill instance.
3.4 Stream-based Disaggregation
Dynamic Prefill Dispatch results in the coexistence of prefill and
decoding jobs within the decoding instance. Fortunately, the shared
mechanisms in GPUs make it possible to mitigate the associating
prefill-decode interference. On modern NVIDIA GPUs (Kepler archi-
tecture and later), Hyper-Q technique [5] supports 32 independent
hardware working queues, enabling concurrent execution of CUDA
kernels. Concurrent execution of CUDA kernels allows multiple
6
1288

---PAGE 7---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
Ad, Bd Ad, Bd, Cp1 Ad, Bd, Cp1 Bd, Cd, Dp1 Bd, Cd, Dp1 Bd, Cd, Dd
 …
Ad, Bd Ad, Bd
Cp Dp
Decode Stream
Prefill Stream
Chunked-prefill
Stream-based Disaggregation
C, D prefill in decode instance
C, D prefill in decode instance
Null Stream
Bd, CdAd, Bd Bd, Cd, Dd Bd, Cd, Dd
Ad, Bd Ad, Bd, Cp Bd, Cd, Dd
…
Regular Hybrid BatchC, D prefill in decode instance
Null Stream
Ad, Bd, Cd, Dp Bd, Cd, Dd
Figure 7: Comparison of chunked-prefill and Stream-based
disaggregation. Subscript d represents a decoding iteration,
p represents a prefill. A, B, C and D represent different re-
quests. The figure shows that Stream-based disaggregation
is friendly to both TTFT and TPOT, while chunked-prefill
slows down prefill considerably.
CPU threads or processes to simultaneously share the resources in
a GPU, mitigating performance loss and resource waste.
NVIDIA provides five technologies to enhance GPUs utilization:
Streams, MPS (Multi-Process Service), Time-Slicing, MIG (Multi-
Instance GPU), and vGPU [16]. While Time-Slicing, MIG and vGPU
technologies provide improved isolation between partitions, they
face challenges such as inflexible partitioning, difficulty in dynamic
reconfiguration, and limited inter-partition communication. Specif-
ically, MIG has restricted partition specifications and disables P2P
communication between GPUs, hindering distributed LLM infer-
ence. Time-Slicing is not suitable for latency-sensitive tasks, and
vGPU lacks support for inter-partition communication and runtime
reconfiguration. Although MPS offers greater flexibility and enables
cross-partition operations via IPC (Inter-Process Communication),
it can only be reconfigured at the launch of multiple processes.
In contrast, the Stream-based approach that we propose in this
paper is well-suited for dynamic scheduling during service run-
time due to its inherent flexibility. A CUDA stream is a software
abstraction that represents a sequence of commands, which may
include computation kernels, memory copies, and other operations
that execute sequentially [16], potentially overlapping with oper-
ations in other streams. There are two types of streams in CUDA
programming: synchronous streams and asynchronous streams.
Synchronous streams block the execution of host-end (CPU) code,
while asynchronous streams do not. By default, GPU operations
execute in the NULL stream, a special synchronous stream. Addi-
tionally, asynchronous streams can be categorized as blocking
and non-blocking streams. GPU executions in blocking streams
are blocked by those in the NULL stream, whereas non-blocking
streams continue execution independently. Since GPU resources
(SM and Cache, etc.) are directly shared between different streams,
the stream-based approach has poor isolation, but its flexibility and
ease of management motivate us to propose it as a fine-grained
0 256 512 1024 2048 4096
#Prefill tokens
0
0.5
1
1.5One step prefill latency (s)
LLaMA-13B Prefill (SBD)
LLaMA-70B Prefill (SBD)
LLaMA-13B (Regular)
LLaMA-70B (Regular)
0 256 512 1024 2048 4096
#Prefill tokens
0
0.5
1
1.5One step decode latency (s)
LLaMA-13B Decode (SBD)
LLaMA-70B Decode (SBD)
LLaMA-13B (Regular)
LLaMA-70B (Regular)
Figure 8: Comparison of single forward pass prefill and de-
coding time cost using regular batching (Regular) and stream-
based disaggregation (SBD). We batch 16 decoding requests
(context length = 2048) and different numbers of prefill to-
kens into one hybrid batch.
scheduling strategy. For the other methods, they may lead to per-
formance loss when only one type of jobs is executed. This happens
because, in these methods, GPU resources can only be allocated sep-
arately for prefill and decode jobs prior to runtime. Consequently,
when only one type of jobs is executed, it can only utilize the
resources allocated for that specific job, leading to underutilization.
In this context, we propose Stream-based Disaggregation to al-
leviate the prefill-decode interference caused by dynamic prefill
dispatch in the decoding instance. From an architectural perspective,
Stream-based Disaggregation overcomes the inherent limitations of
coarse-grained resource allocation, enhancing performance under
high workloads. Figure 7 shows the timeline of proposed Stream-
based Disaggregation. When prefill and decoding jobs coexist in the
decoding instance and may interfere with each other significantly,
WindServe separates them into different CUDA blocking streams,
and returns only the decoding result during computation, then
fetches and synchronizes the prefill computation when it is about
to complete (predicted by the profiler).
We recognize that limited GPU resources could reduce decoding
efficiency when split computations into different streams. This is
because different streams are directly sharing the whole GPU re-
sources. For example, while kernel A is executing, kernel B can only
start if any SM on the GPU has enough resources to execute a thread
block in kernel B. However, compared with regular batch strategies
or chunked-prefill, Stream-based disaggregation can effectively alle-
viate the interference of the prefill computation on the decoding
computation while maintaining the efficiency of the prefill com-
putation . Our following analysis of Stream-based Disaggregation
demonstrates its advantages in detail.
Stream-Based Disaggregation Analysis. To better demonstrate
the advantages of Stream-based Disaggregation, we evaluate this
technology using multiple parameter size LLMs. Figure 8 indi-
cates that Stream-based Disaggregation effectively mitigates prefill-
decode interference. Compared to chunked-prefill [1], Stream-based
Disaggregation provides benefits for both TPOT and TTFT. While
chunked-prefill primarily exchanges increased prefill time for re-
duced TPOT, the data presented in Figure 8 reveal the limitations of
this approach. Consider LLaMA2-70B with a 2048-token prefill job
as a case study. Under the chunked-prefill approach with a chunk
size of 512, the estimated prefill duration is approximately 1.4 s,
which is four times the single-step decoding cost of 0.35 s. In con-
trast, employing Stream-based Disaggregation yields a prefill cost of
7
1289

---PAGE 8---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
NVLink
PCIe Switch
PCIe
CPU
Root Complex
NVLink
PCIe Switch
CPU
QPI
Figure 9: A basic schematic of topology in our testbed. Our
machine has two NUMA nodes, with the GPUs within one
NUMA connected via NVLink bridge or PCIe switch, and the
cross-NUMA node going through the RC (Root Complex).
around 0.75 s, with each decoding iteration taking approximately
0.34 s. While reducing the chunk size may decrease single-step
decoding costs, it furthur increases the prefill cost.
It is important to note that we do not adopt Stream-based Disag-
gregation in the Prefill instance, despite its significant advantages.
If Stream-based Disaggregation is implemented in prefill instance,
its scheduling policy would be highly dependent on the Profiler’s
predicted completion time, leading to a lack of robustness. In the
decoding instance, however, there are only a few prefill jobs that
do not rely heavily on predictions of the Profiler.
4 Implementation
We implement WindServe on top of the open source implemen-
tation of DistServe [ 35, 45], with the aim of enhancing serving
performance via flexible and cost-efficient cross-instance schedul-
ing. The front-end, including algorithm module, global scheduler
and asynchronous migration of WindServe are implemented with
~1.4K lines of Python code. Global Scheduler manages dynamic
prefill dispatch and dynamic rescheduling to coordinate the work-
load across the serving system. And we made necessary extensions
to SwiftTransformer [ 37] (as backend of WindServe), including
asynchronous KV caches transfer, stream-based disaggregation
and concurrent control, which were implemented in ~2K lines of
C++/CUDA.
WindServe is an end-to-end distributed LLM inference system
that uses NCCL [8] to implement communication in tensor paral-
lelism and pipeline parallelism. When WindServe triggers Stream-
based Disaggregation, each stream uses a separate NCCL communi-
cator to avoid synchronization and blocking. In our implementation,
each serving instance is backed by a parallel inference engine that
employs Ray [25] actors to establish GPU workers. These workers
are responsible for executing the LLM inference tasks and manag-
ing the KV Cache (organized as blocks) in a distributed fashion. In
addition, in existing inference engine [45], GPU memories are re-
quired to be allocated to store intermediate variables such as input
tokens and other projection buffers, which will implicitly synchro-
nize the CUDA streams at runtime. To avoid such synchronizations,
Table 2: Datasets used to evaluate WindServe
Dataset Prompt Tokens Output Tokens
Avg Median P90 Avg Median P90
ShareGPT [36] 768.2 695 1556 195.9 87 518
LongBench [3] 2890.4 2887 3792 97.4 12 369
we allocate enough GPU memory to store them when initializ-
ing the inference engine and design a naive memory management
mechanism, which could also avoid the overhead of repeated GPU
memory allocation.
5 Evaluaion
To more comprehensively evaluate the performance of WindServe,
we evaluate WindServe with multiple LLMs of different parame-
ter sizes and multi-scenario datasets, including chatbot [ 23] and
summarization [3]. We choose DistServe [45] as one of the base-
lines, which is considered to be the state-of-the-art system under
the Phase-Disaggregated architectures. Another baseline in our
evaluation is vLLM [18], a highly active open-source LLM serv-
ing engine. The version utilized for comparison is v0.4.2. During
the experiments, we enabled vLLM’s chunked-prefill feature and
implemented its recommended placement.
5.1 Experiments Setup
Testbed. We deployed WindServe in a node consisting of 8 NVIDIA
PCIe A800-80 GB GPUs. One GPU is connected to another GPU via
NVLink 400 GB/s (bidirectional) via NVLink bridge, and connected
to other GPUs via PCIe Gen4 64 GB/s (bidirectional). In other words,
our testbed only interconnects two by two via NVLink as shown in
Figure 9. Moreover, the CPU is 2.90 GHz Intel Xeon Gold 6326 with
768 GB DRAM.
Models. We select the OPT [43] and LLaMA2 [39] series mod-
els as serving LLMs for evaluating WindServe because they are
widely recognized representative families in the academic com-
munity. Both the OPT and LLaMA2 families include models with
varying parameter sizes, ranging from 125M to 175B for OPT mod-
els. For our experiments, we choose the LLaMA2 model to evaluate
WindServe’s performance in the Summarization task, given its capa-
bility to handle longer contexts, with a token limit of 4K compared
to OPT’s 2K. Furthermore, we utilize the OPT-13B and OPT-66B
models for evaluation in Chatbot scenarios. All model parameters
used in our experiments are set to FP16 precision.
Workloads. We evaluated WindServe’s capabilities using a va-
riety of workloads across different scenarios. The specific dataset
statistics used for the evaluation are listed in Table 2. To simulate
the chatbot application scenario, we utilized the ShareGPT [36]
dataset, which contains conversations between users and ChatGPT.
This dataset is notable for its extensive range of input and output
lengths, making it one of the most comprehensive available. In
the summarization application—a popular LLM inference task—the
prompts are typically longer while the outputs are shorter, aligning
with the request distribution found in the Longbench [3] dataset.
8
1290

---PAGE 9---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
3 4 5
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
1
2
3
4TTFT (s)
TTFT SLO: 0.25s
OPT 13B
DistServe-TTFT Median
DistServe-TTFT P99
WindServe-TTFT Median
WindServe-TTFT P99
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
2
4
6TTFT (s)
TTFT SLO: 0.8s
OPT 66B
(a) TTFT on ShareGPT dataset.
2 3 4 5
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0.1
0.2TPOT (s)
TPOT SLO: 0.1s
OPT 13B
DistServe-TPOT P90
DistServe-TPOT P99
WindServe-TPOT P90
WindServe-TPOT P99
0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0.2
0.4TPOT (s)
TPOT SLO: 0.15s
OPT 66B
 (b) TPOT on ShareGPT dataset.
0.8 1 1.2 1.4
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
8
16
24TTFT (s)
TTFT SLO: 4s
LLaMA 13B
DistServe-TTFT Median
DistServe-TTFT P99
WindServe-TTFT Median
WindServe-TTFT P99
0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
15
30
45TTFT (s)
TTFT SLO: 15s
LLaMA 70B
 (c) TTFT on Longbench dataset.
0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.8
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0.1
0.2TPOT (s)
TPOT SLO: 0.1s
LLaMA 13B
DistServe-TPOT P90
DistServe-TPOT P99
WindServe-TPOT P90
WindServe-TPOT P99
0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0.4
0.6
0.8TPOT (s)
TPOT SLO: 0.5s
LLaMA 70B
 (d) TPOT on Longbench dataset.
Figure 10: End-to-End performance of WindServe. 10a and 10b show WindServe’s performance on the ShareGPT dataset; 10c
and 10d show WindServe’s performance on the Longbench dataset.
Table 3: Placement strategies (TP stands for tensor paral-
lelism, while PP stands for pipeline parallelism)
Model Prefill Placement Decode Placement
OPT-13B TP-2, PP-1 TP-2, PP-1
LLaMA2-13B TP-2, PP-1 TP-2, PP-1
OPT-66B TP-2, PP-2 TP-2, PP-2
LLaMA2-70B TP-2, PP-2 TP-2, PP-2
Table 4: SLOs for different model size and scenarios
Model Attention TTFT TPOT Dataset
LLaMA2-13B MHA 4s 0.1s LongBench [3]
LLaMA2-70B GQA 15s 0.5s LongBench [3]
OPT-13B MHA 0.25s 0.1s ShareGPT [36]
OPT-66B MHA 0.8s 0.15s ShareGPT [36]
Additionally, during experiments, we employed a Poisson distribu-
tion to simulate the specified request rate and recorded timestamps
at each stage for further analysis.
Placement Strategies. Based on the model, latency requirements
and SLO attainment targets, DistServe [45] determines the place-
ment of prefill and decoding instances by simulation. WindServe
adopts the same method to establish its parallellism strategy, with
the placement for our experiments listed in Table 3. However, as
discussed in §2.2, the allocation of resources at GPU granularity is
coarse-grained. In contrast, WindServe enables flexible scheduling
at runtime, which we will explore further in §5.3.
Metrics. TTFT and TPOT are two key metrics for evaluating
quality of service in LLM inference. We first utilize the median
(P50) and the 99th percentile (P99) of TTFT to provide a compre-
hensive assessment performance in terms of TTFT. For TPOT, we
focus on the P90 and P99 latencies as key performance indicators.
Additionally, we emphasize the SLO attainment rate, defined as the
percentage of requests meeting both TTFT and TPOT SLOs, as a
reflection of overall quality of service.
5.2 End-to-End Performance
We evaluate WindServe using the datasets listed in Table 2 across
various LLMs (OPT and LLaMA2 models) and different request rates
to demonstrate its serving capabilities under diverse workloads. The
TPOT SLOs are established in a similar way as existing systems [1,
29]. specifically, we set the TPOT SLOs to be equal to ~4 × the
execution time of a decoding iteration for a request (with a context
length equal to the average number of tokens in the dataset and
a batch size of 16) running without prefill interference. We also
empirically define varying TTFT SLOs for different scenarios. The
absolute SLOs established in our evaluation are summarized in
Table 4.
Chatbot. We evaluate the service performance of WindServe on
OPT series models in a Chatbot application. The experimental re-
sults are shown in Figures 10a and 10b, with the upper row showing
the results on the OPT-13B and the lower row on the OPT-66B.
The results indicate that WindServe can reduce the median TTFT
latency to 4.28× and the TTFT P99 latency by 2.1× when serving
OPT-13B, while also decreasing the TPOT P99 latency by 1.5× at
high request rates. The significant improvement in the median
TTFT is primarily attributed to Dynamic Prefill Dispatch and the
wide distribution of input lengths of ShareGPT [ 36] dataset. Dy-
namic Prefill Dispatch enables the LLM serving system to fully uti-
lize computational resources, unlike DistServe, which suffers from
excessive prefill queuing delay. Additionally, the diverse prompt
lengths in the ShareGPT dataset enhance WindServe’s median la-
tency performance. The improvement in TPOT latency is facilitated
9
1291

---PAGE 10---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
20
40
60
80SLO Attainment (%)
OPT 13B
DistServe
vLLM
WindServe
0.125 0.25 0.375 0.5 0.625 0.75
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
20
40
60
80
100SLO Attainment (%)
OPT 66B
(a) SLO on ShareGPT dataset.
1.0 1.125 1.25 1.375 1.5 1.625 1.75
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
20
40
60
80
100SLO Attainment (%)
LLaMA 13B
DistServe
vLLM
WindServe
0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
20
40
60
80
100SLO Attainment (%)
LLaMA 70B
 (b) SLO on Longbench dataset.
Figure 11: SLO attainment of WindServe. 11a show Wind-
Serve’s performance on the ShareGPT dataset; 11b show
WindServe’s performance on the Longbench dataset.
by WindServe’s overlapping KV cache transfers and prefill com-
putations. As anticipated, Stream-based Disaggregation alleviates
prefill interference on TPOT caused by Dynamic Prefill Dispatch.
Notably, the increase in TPOT P99 latency for DistServe at high
request rates is due to the transmission overhead of the KV cache
and longer decoding queuing delay.
We also evaluated WindServe’s serving capabilities on the OPT-
66B, which has a larger parameter size. For these evaluations, Wind-
Serve employs the [TP-2, PP-2, TP-2, PP-2] placement, identified
as the optimal strategy in our evaluation system. The experimen-
tal results are shown in the Figure 10a and 10b (bottom). In the
ShareGPT dataset, WindServe improves the latency of TPOT P99 by
1.52× and reduces the median latency of TTFT by 1.54× compared
to DistServe. However, these enhancements come with a slight
increase in TPOT P90 latency, which is due to decreased decoding
efficiency associated with Stream-based Disaggregation. During this
evaluation, DistServe experiences a surge in TPOT P99 latency
due to swapping in/out of KV cache at high request rates, while
WindServe mitigates this via Dynamic Rescheduling.
Additionally, the SLO attainment rates in Figure 11a also demon-
strate that WindServe outperforms both DistServe [45] and vLLM [18],
achieving a higher SLO attainment rate, despite vLLM enabling
the Chunked-prefill technology. Overall, WindServe surpasses both
DistServe and vLLM in TTFT and TPOT latency in this application,
showcasing superior stability and SLO attainment rates under high
load conditions. This indicates that WindServe is more efficient and
reliable for processing concurrent requests.
Summarization. In the summarization application, we evaluate the
performance of WindServe using LLaMA2 [39] series models on the
Longbench [3] dataset. This is because LLaMA2 models are capable
of supporting a context length of up to 4K, while the OPT models
have a maximum context length of only 2K. The experimental
1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
per-GPU rates (req/s)
60
75
90SLO Attainment (%)
 
1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
per-GPU rates (req/s)
60
75
90
 
WindServe TPOT
DistServe TPOT
WindServe TTFT
DistServe TTFT
WindServe SLO
DistServe SLO
Figure 12: SLO attainment rates for different resource alloca-
tions when serving OPT-13B with Sharegpt [ 36] dataset. The
left subgraph is configured as [TP-2, TP-1] and the right as
[TP-2, TP-2].
results, presented in Figures 10c and 10d, show that WindServe
significantly outperforms DistServe, reducing the median latency
of TTFT by 1.65-2.1× and P99 latency by 1.55-1.76×, with minimal
impact on TPOT.
As expected, WindServe demonstrates superior performance in
TPOT under relatively low workloads, as shown in Figure 10d. This
performance advantage is attributed to the fact that WindServe
asynchronously transfers KV cache during the prefill phase. How-
ever, asynchronous migration also causes WindServe to experience
a slight increase in TTFT latency here compared to DistServe. Nev-
ertheless, WindServe could successfully achieve TTFT SLOs, as
indicated by the SLO attainment rate shown in Figure 11b. Fur-
ther, as request rate increases, WindServe exhibits enhanced TTFT
performance, attributed to its Dynamic Prefill Dispatch.
The asynchronous KV cache transfer provides significant advan-
tages in the TPOT comparison of LLaMA2-13b (Figure 10d upper),
where long context requests increase the KV transfer overhead via
PCIe. However, this advantage is less pronounced for LLaMA20-70b
(Figure 10d down), which utilizes Group Query Attention (GQA)
instead of the Multi-Head Attention mechanism used in other eval-
uated models. The implementation of GQA reduces the size of the
KV cache tensors, thereby decreasing the transmission overhead of
the KV cache.
As request rates increase, TPOT performance declines due to
the overhead of Stream-based Disaggregation . Nevertheless, the
overhead remains acceptable and does not significantly hinder
performance. As shown in Figure 11b, WindServe outperforms
baseline systems in SLO attainment rates, also demonstrating that
the impact of Stream-based Disaggregation on TPOT latency is
acceptable. Specifically, our evaluation shows that WindServe can
improve SLO attainment by at least 1.5× at high request rates.
5.3 Bottleneck-aware Ability
Insufficient dynamic coordination between prefill and decoding
instances can result in significant TTFT and TPOT SLO violations,
negatively impacting overall quality of service. In contrast, Wind-
Serve is bottleneck-aware; when TTFT limits quality of service (as
identified by the 𝑃𝑟𝑜 𝑓 𝑖𝑙𝑒𝑟 monitoring the waiting queue), it dynam-
ically dispatches certain prefill jobs to relieve pressure on the prefill
instance. Conversely, when TPOT becomes a bottleneck, i.e., the
10
1292

---PAGE 11---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
1.50 1.75 2.00 2.25 2.50
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20TTFT P99 (s)
 
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
TPOT P99 (s)
 
WindServe-no-split-TTFT
WindServe-TTFT
WindServe-no-split-TPOT
WindServe-TPOT
(a) P99 Latency in WindServe-no-
split on Longbench dataset
3 4 5 6 7
Per-GPU Rates (req/s)
0
1
2
3
4TTFT P99 (s)
 
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
TPOT P99 (s)
 
WindServe-no-resche-TTFT
WindServe-TTFT
WindServe-no-resche-TPOT
WindServe-TPOT
(b) P99 Latency in WindServe-no-
resche on ShareGPT dataset
Figure 13: Ablation Studies
KV cache blocks in the decoding instance are nearly exhausted,
WindServe reschedules certain long-context requests from the de-
coding instance to the prefill instance, freeing up KV cache blocks
in the decoding instance and decoding these requests stall-freely.
Figure 12 illustrates WindServe’s capabilities in adaptively ad-
dressing specific performance challenges. In the left subfigure, the
SLO attainment rate for DistServe is mainly limited by TPOT, which
WindServe mitigates through Dynamic Rescheduling. In contrast,
as evidenced by the right subfigure, TTFT serves as the main bot-
tleneck for DistServe, while WindServe saturates the decoding
instance and enhances performance via Dynamic Prefill Dispatch.
In more extreme cases, such as when the resources of the prefill in-
stance are significantly smaller than those of the decoding instance,
the 𝑎𝑣𝑎𝑖𝑏𝑙𝑎𝑏𝑙𝑒 𝑠𝑙𝑜𝑡𝑠 in Algorithm 1 for the decoding instance is
automatically large, depending on the configuration of the instance
and SLOs.
5.4 Ablation Studies
In this section, we mainly study the effects of the proposed Stream-
based Disaggregation and Dynamic Rescheduling technologies on the
performance of our LLM serving system. We use WindServe-no-
split to denote WindServe without Stream-Based Disaggregation,
and WindServe-no-resche to represent WindServe without Dy-
namic Rescheduling . We compare the performance of these two
variants with WindServe while serving the OPT-13B. The exper-
imental results indicate that these two techniques significantly
enhance the performance of the LLM serving system.
As shown in the Figure 13a, our ablation study on the Long-
bench [3] dataset reveals that Stream-Based Disaggregation effec-
tively mitigates the prefill-decode interference caused by Dynamic
Prefill Dispatch. Additionally, the comparison in the Figure 13b in-
dicates that Dynamic Rescheduling also effectively reduces TPOT
latency. This improvement is primarily due to the technique’s abil-
ity to alleviate decode queuing delay and to minimize unnecessary
KV cache block swapping I/O. Notably, both technologies have min-
imal impact on TTFT. For Stream-based Disaggregation, the impact
arises from the reduced CUDA kernel parallelism due to limited
resources. Meanwhile, Dynamic Rescheduling causes temporary
chunked-prefill in the prefill instance, which moderately increases
TTFT.
6 Related Work
LLM serving systems. In the domain of LLM serving systems,
there is a significant body of advancing work focused on enhanc-
ing the efficiency and performance of large language model infer-
ence [7, 18, 24, 26, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 42, 45]. Orca [42] schedules the
execution of the engine at the iteration level, enabling batching of
operations for better hardware utilization. vLLM [18] is a system
designed to improve the throughput and efficiency of large lan-
guage model inference. It introduces Paged-Attention to manage
the memory footprint of key-value caches efficiently. SARATHI [1]
aims to improve LLM inference efficiency with chunked-prefills,
which helps to saturate GPU compute resources and reduce pipeline
bubbles in distributed inference. FlexFlow-Serve [24] supports spec-
ulative decoding and tree-based parallel decoding kernels for accel-
erating inference. Llumnix [33] could reacts to such heterogeneous
and unpredictable requests by runtime rescheduling across multi-
ple model instances. In contrast to the above work, DistServe [45],
Splitwise [29], DéjàVu [32] and TetriInfer [13] propose to disaggre-
gate the prefill and decoding jobs to different instances, and in this
paper we introduced and addressed some of the limitations of this
architecture.
Attention Optimizations. The attention module is crucial for LLM
inference, making its optimization a key focus in inference enhance-
ment. FlashAttention [10] is an IO-aware attention algorithm that
employs tiling to minimize memory reads/writes between GPU high
bandwidth memory (HBM) and on-chip SRAM. FlashAttention-2 [9]
improves FlashAttention with better work partitioning for better
performance. And we incorporate FlashAttention-2 into WindServe
for prefill phase. A concurrent work, POD-Attention [15] is a GPU
kernel that improves the efficiency of attention computation for
hybrid batches. It optimizes compute and memory bandwidth by
effectively allocating GPU resources, enabling concurrent prefill
and decoding jobs on the same multiprocessor.
In addition, recent efforts [4, 12, 17, 19, 21, 22, 44] have utilized
sparse attention to improve the efficiency of long context request
inference. However, we believe that these approximations lack com-
petitive accuracy in LLM inference. For example, Longformer [4]
constructs the sparse attention using a fixed-size sliding window on
the most recent local tokens. ALISA [44] emphasizes tokens crucial
for generating new tokens using a Sparse Window Attention algo-
rithm, which enhances sparsity in attention layers and minimizes
KV caching memory usage with minimal accuracy loss.
7 Discussion
Limitations. Firstly, due to constraints in the experimental envi-
ronment, we were unable to evaluate our WindServe in a multi-
node setting. It is anticipated that inter-node communication would
necessitate additional tuning efforts. Obviously, it is essential to
avoid inter-node paths in tensor-parallel collective communication
due to their high overhead and potential unreliability. Cross-node
GPUs typically communicate via GDR (GPU Direct RDMA) tech-
nique, whereas GDR cannot be finely controlled in NCCL. There-
fore, additional communication code needs to be implemented to
enable fine-grained control of the communication. Secondly, al-
though stream-based disaggregation allows for the asynchronous
execution of prefill and decoding jobs to reduce interference, the
11
1293

---PAGE 12---
ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan Feng, et al.
independent execution of kernels doubles the model’s I/O overhead.
Finally, the GPU sharing based on streams remains coarse-grained,
and the transparent nature of the CTA scheduler somewhat hinders
the higher performance of stream-based disaggregation.
Future Work. We advocate for the strategic allocation of GPU re-
sources based on specific workloads. Heterogeneous GPU clusters
are increasingly prevalent in computing due to the high expense
of GPUs. Different types of GPUs exhibit significant variations
in computational performance, storage, and power consumption.
The PD architecture offers a viable framework for organizing these
heterogeneous GPUs to achieve high efficiency while minimizing
costs. High computing-resource GPUs with lower memory band-
width, such as the NVIDIA RTX 4090, are well-suited for prefill
jobs. Additionally, despite not supporting NVLink, the RTX 4090
offers significant savings compared to expensive datacenter GPUs,
highlighting the advantages of the PD architecture. We regard the
performance optimization of the PD architecture in the heteroge-
neous hardware clusters as our future work. In addition, there are
still many pressing issues to be addressed in large-scale deploy-
ment, such as load balancing across instances and the exploration
of fine-grained and efficient autoscaling strategies. We will explore
these practical issues in the future.
8 Conclusion
We present WindServe, a latency-oriented LLM serving system
based on the PD architecture. WindServe addresses the critical
issues of resource imbalance in existing Phase-Disaggregated archi-
tecture serving systems. It minimizes the overhead and interference
associated with dynamic scheduling through Stall-free Reschedul-
ing and Stream-based Disaggregation. WindServe achieves remark-
able improvements in latency and SLO attainment, demonstrating
up to 1.65-4.28× enhancements in TTFT median latency and a 1.5×
reduction in TPOT P99 latency compared to state-of-the-art sys-
tems.
References
[1] Amey Agrawal, Nitin Kedia, Ashish Panwar, Jayashree Mohan, Nipun Kwatra,
Bhargav Gulavani, Alexey Tumanov, and Ramachandran Ramjee. 2024. Tam-
ing Throughput-Latency Tradeoff in LLM Inference with Sarathi-Serve. In 18th
USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI
24). USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA, 117–134. https://www.usenix.org/
conference/osdi24/presentation/agrawal
[2] Amey Agrawal, Ashish Panwar, Jayashree Mohan, Nipun Kwatra, Bhargav S.
Gulavani, and Ramachandran Ramjee. 2023. SARATHI: Efficient LLM Inference
by Piggybacking Decodes with Chunked Prefills. arXiv:2308.16369 [cs.LG]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.16369
[3] Yushi Bai, Xin Lv, Jiajie Zhang, Hongchang Lyu, Jiankai Tang, Zhidian Huang,
Zhengxiao Du, Xiao Liu, Aohan Zeng, Lei Hou, Yuxiao Dong, Jie Tang, and
Juanzi Li. 2024. LongBench: A Bilingual, Multitask Benchmark for Long Context
Understanding. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Lun-Wei Ku, Andre Martins,
and Vivek Srikumar (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Bangkok,
Thailand, 3119–3137. https://aclanthology.org/2024.acl-long.172
[4] Iz Beltagy, Matthew E. Peters, and Arman Cohan. 2020. Longformer: The Long-
Document Transformer. arXiv:2004.05150 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.
05150
[5] T. Bradley. 2024. Hyper-Q Example. https://developer.download.nvidia.com/
compute/DevZone/C/html_x64/6_Advanced/simpleHyperQ/doc/HyperQ.pdf.
[6] Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan,
Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu, Clemens Winter,
Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin
Chess, Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya
Sutskever, and Dario Amodei. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In
Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on Neural Information Processing
Systems (Vancouver, BC, Canada) (NIPS ’20). Curran Associates Inc., Red Hook,
NY, USA, Article 159, 25 pages.
[7] NVIDIA Corporation. 2019. FasterTransformer. https://github.com/NVIDIA/
FasterTransformer.
[8] NVIDIA Corporation. 2023. Nvidia collective communications library (NCCL).
https://developer.nvidia.com/nccl.
[9] Tri Dao. 2024. FlashAttention-2: Faster Attention with Better Parallelism and
Work Partitioning. InInternational Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
[10] Tri Dao, Daniel Y. Fu, Stefano Ermon, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré.
2024. FLASHATTENTION: fast and memory-efficient exact attention with IO-
awareness. In Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems (New Orleans, LA, USA) (NIPS ’22). Curran Associates
Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, Article 1189, 16 pages.
[11] Zhengxiao Du, Yujie Qian, Xiao Liu, Ming Ding, Jiezhong Qiu, Zhilin Yang, and
Jie Tang. 2022. GLM: General Language Model Pretraining with Autoregressive
Blank Infilling. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers) , Smaranda Muresan, Preslav
Nakov, and Aline Villavicencio (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics,
Dublin, Ireland, 320–335. https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.26
[12] Insu Han, Rajesh Jayaram, Amin Karbasi, Vahab Mirrokni, David P. Woodruff,
and Amir Zandieh. 2023. HyperAttention: Long-context Attention in Near-Linear
Time. arXiv:2310.05869 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.05869
[13] Cunchen Hu, Heyang Huang, Liangliang Xu, Xusheng Chen, Jiang Xu, Shuang
Chen, Hao Feng, Chenxi Wang, Sa Wang, Yungang Bao, Ninghui Sun, and Yizhou
Shan. 2024. Inference without Interference: Disaggregate LLM Inference for
Mixed Downstream Workloads. arXiv:2401.11181 [cs.DC] https://arxiv.org/abs/
2401.11181
[14] Qinghao Hu, Peng Sun, Shengen Yan, Yonggang Wen, and Tianwei Zhang. 2021.
Characterization and prediction of deep learning workloads in large-scale GPU
datacenters (SC ’21). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
Article 104, 15 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3458817.3476223
[15] Aditya K Kamath, Ramya Prabhu, Jayashree Mohan, Simon Peter, Ramachandran
Ramjee, and Ashish Panwar. 2024. POD-Attention: Unlocking Full Prefill-Decode
Overlap for Faster LLM Inference. arXiv:2410.18038 [cs.LG] https://arxiv.org/
abs/2410.18038
[16] Kyrylo Perelygin Kevin Klues and Pramod Ramarao. 2022. Improving GPU
Utilization in Kubernetes. https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/improving-gpu-
utilization-in-kubernetes/.
[17] Nikita Kitaev, Lukasz Kaiser, and Anselm Levskaya. 2020. Reformer: The Efficient
Transformer. In International Conference on Learning Representations . https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=rkgNKkHtvB
[18] Woosuk Kwon, Zhuohan Li, Siyuan Zhuang, Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng,
Cody Hao Yu, Joseph Gonzalez, Hao Zhang, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Efficient
Memory Management for Large Language Model Serving with PagedAttention.
In Proceedings of the 29th Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (Koblenz,
Germany) (SOSP ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
611–626. https://doi.org/10.1145/3600006.3613165
[19] Heejun Lee, Geon Park, Youngwan Lee, Jaduk Suh, Jina Kim, Wonyoung Jeong,
Bumsik Kim, Hyemin Lee, Myeongjae Jeon, and Sung Ju Hwang. 2024. A Training-
free Sub-quadratic Cost Transformer Model Serving Framework With Hierar-
chically Pruned Attention. arXiv:2406.09827 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.
09827
[20] Baolin Li, Tirthak Patel, Siddharth Samsi, Vijay Gadepally, and Devesh Tiwari.
2022. MISO: exploiting multi-instance GPU capability on multi-tenant GPU
clusters. Proceedings of the 13th Symposium on Cloud Computing (2022). https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:252762247
[21] Yuhong Li, Yingbing Huang, Bowen Yang, Bharat Venkitesh, Acyr Locatelli,
Hanchen Ye, Tianle Cai, Patrick Lewis, and Deming Chen. 2024. SnapKV: LLM
Knows What You are Looking for Before Generation. arXiv:2404.14469 [cs.CL]
https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.14469
[22] Evan Lucas, Dylan Kangas, and Timothy C Havens. 2024. Extra Global Attention
Designation Using Keyword Detection in Sparse Transformer Architectures.
arXiv:2410.08971 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08971
[23] Meta. 2024. chatgpt. https://openai.com/index/chatgpt/.
[24] Xupeng Miao, Gabriele Oliaro, Zhihao Zhang, Xinhao Cheng, Zeyu Wang,
Zhengxin Zhang, Rae Ying Yee Wong, Alan Zhu, Lijie Yang, Xiaoxiang Shi,
Chunan Shi, Zhuoming Chen, Daiyaan Arfeen, Reyna Abhyankar, and Zhi-
hao Jia. 2024. SpecInfer: Accelerating Large Language Model Serving with
Tree-based Speculative Inference and Verification. In Proceedings of the 29th
ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Lan-
guages and Operating Systems, Volume 3 (La Jolla, CA, USA) (ASPLOS ’24). As-
sociation for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 932–949. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3620666.3651335
[25] Philipp Moritz, Robert Nishihara, Stephanie Wang, Alexey Tumanov, Richard
Liaw, Eric Liang, Melih Elibol, Zongheng Yang, William Paul, Michael I. Jordan,
and Ion Stoica. 2018. Ray: A Distributed Framework for Emerging AI Applications.
12
1294

---PAGE 13---
WindServe: Efficient Phase-Disaggregated LLM Serving with Stream-based Dynamic Scheduling ISCA ’25, June 21–25, 2025, Tokyo, Japan
In 13th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI 18). USENIX Association, Carlsbad, CA, 561–577. https://www.usenix.
org/conference/osdi18/presentation/moritz
[26] NVIDIA. 2024. TensorRt-llm: A tensorrt toolbox for optimized large language
model inference. https://github.com/NVIDIA/TensorRT-LLM.
[27] NVIDIA. 2025. GB200 NVL72. https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/data-center/gb200-
nvl72/.
[28] Hyungjun Oh, Kihong Kim, Jaemin Kim, Sungkyun Kim, Junyeol Lee, Du-seong
Chang, and Jiwon Seo. 2024. ExeGPT: Constraint-Aware Resource Scheduling
for LLM Inference (ASPLOS ’24). Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA, 369–384. https://doi.org/10.1145/3620665.3640383
[29] Pratyush Patel, Esha Choukse, Chaojie Zhang, Aashaka Shah, Íñigo Goiri, Saeed
Maleki, and Ricardo Bianchini. 2024. Splitwise: Efficient Generative LLM Infer-
ence Using Phase Splitting. In 2024 ACM/IEEE 51st Annual International Sym-
posium on Computer Architecture (ISCA) . 118–132. https://doi.org/10.1109/
ISCA59077.2024.00019
[30] Reiner Pope, Sholto Douglas, Aakanksha Chowdhery, Jacob Devlin, James
Bradbury, Jonathan Heek, Kefan Xiao, Shivani Agrawal, and Jeff Dean.
2023. Efficiently Scaling Transformer Inference. In Proceedings of Ma-
chine Learning and Systems , D. Song, M. Carbin, and T. Chen (Eds.), Vol. 5.
Curan, 606–624. https://proceedings.mlsys.org/paper_files/paper/2023/file/
c4be71ab8d24cdfb45e3d06dbfca2780-Paper-mlsys2023.pdf
[31] Ying Sheng, Lianmin Zheng, Binhang Yuan, Zhuohan Li, Max Ryabinin, Beidi
Chen, Percy Liang, Christopher Ré, Ion Stoica, and Ce Zhang. 2023. FlexGen:
high-throughput generative inference of large language models with a single
GPU. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning
(Honolulu, Hawaii, USA) (ICML’23). JMLR.org, Article 1288, 23 pages.
[32] Foteini Strati, Sara Mcallister, Amar Phanishayee, Jakub Tarnawski, and Ana
Klimovic. 2024. DéjàVu: KV-cache Streaming for Fast, Fault-tolerant Gen-
erative LLM Serving. In Proceedings of the 41st International Conference on
Machine Learning (Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, Vol. 235) , Rus-
lan Salakhutdinov, Zico Kolter, Katherine Heller, Adrian Weller, Nuria Oliver,
Jonathan Scarlett, and Felix Berkenkamp (Eds.). PMLR, 46745–46771. https:
//proceedings.mlr.press/v235/strati24a.html
[33] Biao Sun, Ziming Huang, Hanyu Zhao, Wencong Xiao, Xinyi Zhang, Yong Li, and
Wei Lin. 2024. Llumnix: Dynamic Scheduling for Large Language Model Serving.
In 18th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI 24). USENIX Association, Santa Clara, CA, 173–191. https://www.usenix.
org/conference/osdi24/presentation/sun-biao
[34] DeepSpeed team. 2022. DeepSpeed Inference. https://github.com/microsoft/
DeepSpeed.
[35] Distserve teams. 2024. Distserve. https://github.com/LLMServe/DistServe
[36] Sharegpt teams. 2023. ShareGPT. https://sharegpt.com/.
[37] SwiftTransformer teams. 2024. Swiftransformer. https://github.com/LLMServe/
SwiftTransformer.
[38] Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne
Lachaux, Timothée Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro,
Faisal Azhar, Aurelien Rodriguez, Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, and Guil-
laume Lample. 2023. LLaMA: Open and Efficient Foundation Language Models.
arXiv:2302.13971 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.13971
[39] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin R. Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi,
Yasmine Babaei, Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti
Bhosale, Daniel M. Bikel, Lukas Blecher, Cristian Cantón Ferrer, Moya Chen,
Guillem Cucurull, David Esiobu, Jude Fernandes, Jeremy Fu, Wenyin Fu, Brian
Fuller, Cynthia Gao, Vedanuj Goswami, Naman Goyal, Anthony S. Hartshorn,
Saghar Hosseini, Rui Hou, Hakan Inan, Marcin Kardas, Viktor Kerkez, Madian
Khabsa, Isabel M. Kloumann, A. V. Korenev, Punit Singh Koura, Marie-Anne
Lachaux, Thibaut Lavril, Jenya Lee, Diana Liskovich, Yinghai Lu, Yuning Mao,
Xavier Martinet, Todor Mihaylov, Pushkar Mishra, Igor Molybog, Yixin Nie,
Andrew Poulton, Jeremy Reizenstein, Rashi Rungta, Kalyan Saladi, Alan Schelten,
Ruan Silva, Eric Michael Smith, R. Subramanian, Xia Tan, Binh Tang, Ross Taylor,
Adina Williams, Jian Xiang Kuan, Puxin Xu, Zhengxu Yan, Iliyan Zarov, Yuchen
Zhang, Angela Fan, Melanie Kambadur, Sharan Narang, Aurelien Rodriguez,
Robert Stojnic, Sergey Edunov, and Thomas Scialom. 2023. Llama 2: Open
Foundation and Fine-Tuned Chat Models. ArXiv abs/2307.09288 (2023). https:
//api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:259950998
[40] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N. Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is all you
need. In Proceedings of the 31st International Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems (Long Beach, California, USA) (NIPS’17). Curran Associates
Inc., Red Hook, NY, USA, 6000–6010.
[41] Qizhen Weng, Wencong Xiao, Yinghao Yu, Wei Wang, Cheng Wang, Jian He,
Yong Li, Liping Zhang, Wei Lin, and Yu Ding. 2022. MLaaS in the Wild: Workload
Analysis and Scheduling in Large-Scale Heterogeneous GPU Clusters. In 19th
USENIX Symposium on Networked Systems Design and Implementation (NSDI 22) .
USENIX Association, Renton, WA, 945–960. https://www.usenix.org/conference/
nsdi22/presentation/weng
[42] Gyeong-In Yu, Joo Seong Jeong, Geon-Woo Kim, Soojeong Kim, and Byung-
Gon Chun. 2022. Orca: A Distributed Serving System for Transformer-Based
Generative Models. In 16th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
Implementation (OSDI 22). USENIX Association, Carlsbad, CA, 521–538. https:
//www.usenix.org/conference/osdi22/presentation/yu
[43] Susan Zhang, Stephen Roller, Naman Goyal, Mikel Artetxe, Moya Chen, Shuohui
Chen, Christopher Dewan, Mona Diab, Xian Li, Xi Victoria Lin, Todor Mihaylov,
Myle Ott, Sam Shleifer, Kurt Shuster, Daniel Simig, Punit Singh Koura, Anjali
Sridhar, Tianlu Wang, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2022. OPT: Open Pre-trained
Transformer Language Models. arXiv:2205.01068 [cs.CL] https://arxiv.org/abs/
2205.01068
[44] Youpeng Zhao, Di Wu, and Jun Wang. 2024. ALISA: Accelerating Large Language
Model Inference via Sparsity-Aware KV Caching . In 2024 ACM/IEEE 51st Annual
International Symposium on Computer Architecture (ISCA). IEEE Computer Society,
Los Alamitos, CA, USA, 1005–1017. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISCA59077.2024.
00077
[45] Yinmin Zhong, Shengyu Liu, Junda Chen, Jianbo Hu, Yibo Zhu, Xuanzhe Liu, Xin
Jin, and Hao Zhang. 2024. DistServe: Disaggregating Prefill and Decoding for
Goodput-optimized Large Language Model Serving. In 18th USENIX Symposium
on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI 24) . USENIX Associa-
tion, Santa Clara, CA, 193–210. https://www.usenix.org/conference/osdi24/
presentation/zhong-yinmin
13
1295